Have you ever imagined that a fern could be created from just four simple mathematical operations?
This is the Barnsley Fern, one of the most famous fractals in mathematics.
Named after mathematician Michael Barnsley, it reveals the magical beauty hidden within mathematical formulas.
Watch as the fern begins to take shape.
Each new point is generated by applying one of four transformations, randomly selected with different probabilities.
The first transformation accounts for just one percent, creating the stem.
The second transformation makes up eighty-five percent, forming most of the leaves.
The remaining two create the left and right branches.
The remarkable thing is that each small branch resembles the entire plant.
This is self-similarity, the defining characteristic of fractals.
With each iteration, hundreds of new points appear.
From a single starting point, we now have hundreds of thousands of points, forming a complete fern.
Mathematics is not just dry numbers.
It is the language of nature, and the Barnsley Fern is proof of that.
Subscribe to discover more mathematical wonders.